Announce opam 2.2.0~rc1 (#102)
ocaml/platform-blog: opam-2-2-0-rc1.md

  "Kate Deplaix - Ahrefs" {"mailto:kit-ty-kate(à)outlook.com"}
  "David Allsopp - Tarides" {"mailto:david(à)tarides.com"}
]
date: "2024-06-21"
--BODY--

_Feedback on this post is welcomed on [Discuss](https://discuss.ocaml.org/t/ann-opam-2-2-0-rc1/XXXXX)!_

We are very excited to announce the first (and hopefully only) release candidate for opam 2.2.0.

We've squashed a few more bugs and we consider this to be ready for the final release. You can view the full list of changes in the [release note](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1).

We invite users to test it one final time just in case there are any previously unnoticed bugs!

## Changes

* Fix `opam upgrade` wanting to keep rebuilding the compiler (as now it contains an `x-env-path-rewrite` field)
* Provide defaults so `opam init -y` no longer asks questions on Windows
* Fix `OpamConsole.menu` when there are more than 9 options (can happen on Windows)
 
A couple more improvements were made and bugs were fixed.
The single API change is also denoted in the
[release note](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1).
This release also includes PRs extending the tests.

> ## Try it on other platforms!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Try it!
```

title: "opam 2.2.0 rc1 release"
authors: [
  "Raja Boujbel - OCamlPro" {"mailto:raja.boujbel(à)ocamlpro.com"}
  "Kate Deplaix - Ahrefs" {"mailto:kit-ty-kate(à)outlook.com"}
  "David Allsopp - Tarides" {"mailto:david(à)tarides.com"}
]

> date: "2024-06-20"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: "2024-06-21"
```

--BODY--

_Feedback on this post is welcomed on [Discuss](https://discuss.ocaml.org/t/ann-opam-2-2-0-rc1/XXXXX)!_

We are very excited to announce the first (and hopefully only) release candidate for opam 2.2.0.

We've squashed a few more bugs and we consider this to be ready for the final release. You can view the full list of changes in the [release note](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1).

We invite users to test it one final time just in case there are any previously unnoticed bugs!

## Changes

> * Fix `opam upgrade` wanting to keep rebuilding the compiler (as it contains an `x-env-path-rewrite` field)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix `opam upgrade` wanting to keep rebuilding the compiler (as now it contains an `x-env-path-rewrite` field)
```

* Provide defaults so `opam init -y` no longer asks questions on Windows
* Fix `OpamConsole.menu` when there are more than 9 options (can happen on Windows)
 
A couple more improvements were made and bugs were fixed.
The single API change is also denoted in the
[release note](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1).
This release also includes PRs extending the tests.

## Try it on other platforms!

In case you plan a possible rollback, you may want to first backup your
`~/.opam` or `$env:LOCALAPPDATA\opam` directory.

The upgrade instructions are unchanged:

> 1. Either from binaries: run
> 
>     ```
>     bash -c "sh <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.sh) --version 2.2.0~rc1"
>     ```
> (for Unix systems)
> or
>     ```
>     Invoke-Expression "& { $(Invoke-RestMethod https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.ps1) }"
>     ```
> (from PowerShell for Windows systems).
>     or download manually from [the Github "Releases" page](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1) to your PATH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Either from binaries: run

For Unix systems
```
bash -c "sh <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.sh) --version 2.2.0~rc1"
```
or from PowerShell for Windows systems
```
Invoke-Expression "& { $(Invoke-RestMethod https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.ps1) }"
```
or download manually from [the Github "Releases" page](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1) to your PATH.
```

title: "opam 2.2.0 rc1 release"
authors: [
  "Raja Boujbel - OCamlPro" {"mailto:raja.boujbel(à)ocamlpro.com"}
  "Kate Deplaix - Ahrefs" {"mailto:kit-ty-kate(à)outlook.com"}
  "David Allsopp - Tarides" {"mailto:david(à)tarides.com"}
]
date: "2024-06-20"
--BODY--

_Feedback on this post is welcomed on [Discuss](https://discuss.ocaml.org/t/ann-opam-2-2-0-rc1/XXXXX)!_

> We are very excited to announce the first (and hopefully final) release candidate for opam 2.2.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are very excited to announce the first (and hopefully only) release candidate for opam 2.2.0.
```

> We've squashed a few more bugs and we consider this release to be in a state worthy of the final release. You can view the full list of changes in the [release note](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've squashed a few more bugs and we consider this to be ready for the final release. You can view the full list of changes in the [release note](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1).
```

> This version should be the last pre-release before the final release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
(already said at L12)

> We invite users to test it to spot previously unnoticed bugs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We invite users to test it one final time just in case there are any previously unnoticed bugs!
```
?

## Changes

* Fix `opam upgrade` wanting to recompile opam files containing the `x-env-path-rewrite` field
* Provide defaults so `opam init -y` no longer asks questions

> * Fix OpamConsole.menu > 9 options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix `OpamConsole.menu` when there is more than 9 options (yes it is possible on Windows)
```

> * Fix `opam upgrade` wanting to recompile opam files containing the `x-env-path-rewrite` field
> * Provide defaults so `opam init -y` no longer asks questions
> * Fix `OpamConsole.menu` when there is more than 9 options (can happen on Windows)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fix `opam upgrade` wanting to keep rebuilding the compiler (as it contains an `x-env-path-rewrite` field)
* Provide defaults so `opam init -y` no longer asks questions on Windows
* Fix `OpamConsole.menu` when there are more than 9 options (can happen on Windows)
```

> Various other improvements were made and bugs were fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some other improvements were made and bugs were fixed.
```

Author: i prefer "various" personally. "some" sounds too negative to me

Reviewer: Something else than _some_ then. The idea behind that proposal is to "minimise the number", in this release there is few improvements and bug fixes, and we say already _various_ when there is 100+ improvements & bug fixes ^^. (if I remember well)

Author: "a couple more" then

Reviewer: lgtm!

> API changes are denoted in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API changes are denoted in the
```
There is a single one this time ^^

[release note](https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/2.2.0-rc1).
This release also includes PRs extending the tests.

> ## Try it on Windows!
> 
> Testing is as simple as calling the following command from a PowerShell terminal:
> ```
> Invoke-Expression "& { $(Invoke-RestMethod https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.ps1) }"
> ```
> 
> If you've already installed a previous beta of opam 2.2.0 you should then run:
> ```
> opam init --reinit -ni
> ```
> if not, then:
> ```
> opam init
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
(in favour of merging below?)

## Try it on other platforms!

In case you plan a possible rollback, you may want to first backup your

> `~/.opam` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`~/.opam` or `$env:LOCALAPPDATA\opam` directory.
```

The upgrade instructions are unchanged:

1. Either from binaries: run

    ```
    bash -c "sh <(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.sh) --version 2.2.0~rc1"
    ```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(for Unix systems)
or
    ```
    Invoke-Expression "& { $(Invoke-RestMethod https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ocaml/opam/master/shell/install.ps1) }"
    ```
(from PowerShell for Windows systems).
```
